Tensor Fill Estimation: a comparison
======================

Organization
--------

`deps/`:
  Our implementation (and associated analysis) has some software dependencies.
To make our results more replicable, we have included the exact versions of
this software that we have used in the deps/ folder, and linked them into our
build system. Each subdirectory of deps/ contains a different software
dependency and associated Makefile. If you would like to provide custom build
instructions for some dependency $DEP, create and modify a copy of
deps/$DEP/Makefile.Default named `deps/$DEP/Makefile.$ARCH` where $ARCH is the
name of your current architecture (The default value of $ARCH can be queried by
typing make arch at the top level directory of this project) or a custom name
you have given your machine (you can specify the value of the $ARCH variable
by invoking make as `make ARCH=$ARCH`). The deps make target at the top level
directory of our project will build our software dependencies.

`src/`:
  The src directory contains the implementations of our algorithms and the
test harnesses we use to generate results.
  Our [Phil]() algorithm is implemented in `src/phil.c` and built into the
executable `phil`. A different algorithm (described in the file
`oski-1.0.1h/src/heur/estfill.c` in the [OSKI](https://bebop.cs.berkeley.edu/oski/) library) is implemented in
`src/oski.c` and built into the executable `oski`. A reference algorithm is
implemented in `reference.c` and built into the executable `reference`. An
implementation of sparse (possibly blocked) matrix-vector multiply is provided
by the [TACO](http://tensor-compiler.org/) library in `spmv.cpp` and built into the executable `spmv`. All
executables take a `-h` option describing their usage, and provide their output
in [JSON](https://www.json.org/) format. If you would like to provide custom build instructions for
the executables in `src/`, create and modify a copy of `src/Makefile.Default`
named `src/Makefile.$ARCH` where `$ARCH` is the name of your current architecture
(The default value of `$ARCH` can be queried by typing make arch at the top level
directory of this project) or a custom name you have given your machine (you
can specify the value of the `$ARCH` variable by invoking make as `make
ARCH=$ARCH`). The makefile also generates a file called `src/env.sh` which sets
important environment variables necessary to run the code. The `src` make target
at the top level directory of our project will build our software dependencies.

  The test harnesses are controlled by a parameter file which describes the
settings to run a particular experiment on a particular machine. The parameter
file is written in python and must evaluate to a dictionary. An example
parameter file is given in `src/experiment_default.py`. The `"data_path"`
parameter specifies where results will be stored. The test harness files are named after the type
of results they generate. `src/generate_spmv_records.py` records the time taken
to perform a blocked sparse matrix vector multiply of a sparse matrix with
several different block sizes. `src/generate_profile.py` investigates how the
relationship between performance and block size on this machine.
`src/generate_reference.py` records reference fill values of a sparse matrix
for several different block sizes. `src/generate_plot.py` examines the
performance of our fill estimation algorithms on a sparse matrix as a function
of different parameters (storing the output as a [csv](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values) file), and
`src/generate_table_data.py` examines the performance of our fill estimation
algorithm on a sparse matrix for default parameter values (storing the output
in [JSON](https://www.json.org/) format for each matrix). `src/generate_table.py` combines each
output of `src/generate_table_data.py` into a single [csv](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated_values) table. because running
all of these python files individually can become tedious, you can use the
`src/generate_run_scripts.py` file to generate sh or [slurm](https://slurm.schedmd.com/) scripts
which call these test harnesses with the appropriate arguments. These files
show up in the `"run_path"` directory as specified in the experiment parameter file, which defaults to `run/`

`run/`:
  This is the default directory for the scripts generated by
`src/generate_run_scripts.py` generator. `generate_table.sh` requires you to
run `generate_table_data.sh` first, and both `generate_table_data.sh` and
`generate_plots.sh` can be accelerated by running `generate_spmv_records.sh`,
`generate_references.sh` and `generate_profile.sh` first.

`data/`:
  This is the default directory for the data generated by the test harnesses.
It also contains a few toy matrices to test the code on. The full suite of
matrices we tested on is available [here]().
